Python 3.6 introduced another way of
formatting values in a string.
These are called f-strings or formatted string literals. Now at the moment I won't be
using f-strings in the course. That's
because there's no plans to back port
them to earlier versions of Python 3.
Python 3.4 is still very common,
and f-strings won't work with that version, or
earlier versions. But with that said,
it is worth being familiar with them. So let's
have a quick look. I'm going to use the
strings.py file from an earlier
video, so I'm going to select that,
and we're going to work with this file. Now at the moment, we've got an error on the last line.
I used that to demonstrate that you
can't concatenate a string and an int.
So let's firstly just check this by running
it again, confirming we've still got the error.
And you can see we've still got this type
error "can only concatenate strings,
not an int to string".
So let's fix that using
an f-string. So all we really need to do
to fix that, is to put the letter f
before is up here. Put an f before the
double quote and that's literally all we
need to do. So an f-string is defined
by putting the letter f before the
opening quotes. Now that we've done that,
we can use a variable name, inside curly
braces, in a similar way that we've used
replacement fields. So what we can do is
delete this extra double quote here,
come up and put age there. We can put age in
left and right curly braces, like so.
We can remove the other double quote there,
so we've got it all in the one string, now
So as you can see, it looks very
similar to a replacement field. It's a lot
cleaner, because we don't have to use
.format at the end anymore. So if we run
the program, let's do that just to make
sure that it works, and you can see we've no
longer got an error. The output is
showing Tim is 24 years old - and Tim
wishes he was 24 years old. Alright, so
all the formatting for replacement
fields also works with f-strings. So, for
example, I could do some formatting
along these lines. So let's just type
some code in. So on line 24 I'm going to type
print parentheses f double quotes Pi is
approximately,
and then in left and right curly braces,
noting that the right one's added for us
automatically, I can type in an
expression 22 / 7:12.50f, and then we've got
our double quote and then our right
parenthesis. Now clearly you can see that
I've used an expression rather than a
variable name there. So let's just try
running that first, and you can see we've
got the value showing.
Now what we can also do is calculate 22 / 7 first, and then use a variable,
so let's do that.
So PI on line 25 is equal to 22 divided
by 7. Line 23, we'll do a print parenthesis f
double quotes Pi is approximately
and left and right curly braces, and this
time we'll use the variable, so pi:12.50f
for formatting,
and, sorry for precision,  and then we'll run that again,
and you can see we've got the
identical output. So now that you
understand replacement fields, you can
change to using f-strings instead, if you
want. But be aware that your code won't
run on Python 3 versions, earlier than 3.6,
if you do use them. In the next video,
we'll finish this section with a quick
look at yet another way to format strings.
See you in the next video.